Expand `Guides/Compressing files` (#8985)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/Guides/Compressing_files/en.md

## Video

> **The osu! game client supports video encoded in the H.264 format with the `.mp4` file extension.** Other formats such as H.265, VP9, and AV1 and file extensions such as `.mkv` and `.mov` are currently not supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**osu! supports video encoded in the H.264 format with the `.mp4` file extension.** Other formats, such as H.265, VP9, and AV1, and file extensions such as `.mkv` and `.mov`, are currently not supported.
```

![Removing audio tracks from the audio tab in Handbrake](img/removeaudio-handbrake.png "Removing the audio tracks")

4. Go into the `Video` tab and make sure to set the following settings:
   - `Video Encoder` set to `H.264 (x264)` to encode in the H.264 format using the x264 encoder.
   - `Framerate (FPS)` set to `Same as source` with `Constant Framerate` selected.

>    - `Constant Quality` set to a value of between 20 to 25, with smaller values resulting in larger, higher quality files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - `Constant Quality` set to a value between 20 to 25. Smaller value will result in larger, higher quality files.
```

>    - `Encoder Profile` set to `High` to use the H.264 High profile.

Author: Actually, after doing further tests myself, the difference between High and Main profile is minimal especially at the 720p maximum resolution osu! supports. So probably it can be removed entirely.

> 5. Depending on how long you are willing to spend time encoding, change the `Encoder Preset` under `Encoder Options` to a preset from `Ultrafast` to `Placebo` with `Veryslow` being recommended. Slower presets results in better video quality and may also reduce video file size.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Depending on how long you are willing to spend time encoding, change the `Encoder Preset` under `Encoder Options` (`Veryslow` is recommended). Slower presets result in better video quality and may also reduce video file size.
```

### Using FFmpeg

> **FFmpeg is a program used through a [command-line interface (CLI)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Command-line_interface), meaning it does not have any [graphical user interface (GUI)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Graphical_user_interface) by itself.** While this may seem intimidating, FFmpeg can offer more flexibility than other tools, such as when integrated into a script.

Reviewer: I don't think it makes sense to add emphasis here (or the GUI wikipedia link, too)
```suggestion
FFmpeg is a program used through a [command-line interface (CLI)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Command-line_interface), meaning it does not have any graphical interface by itself. While this may seem intimidating, FFmpeg can offer more flexibility than other tools, such as when integrated into a script.
```

To install FFmpeg on Windows, [download FFmpeg](https://ffmpeg.org/download.html) and add its directory to your `PATH` environment variable. On macOS, you can alternatively install it using the [brew](https://brew.sh/) package manager.

> On Linux, most Linux distributions either already provide or pre-install FFmpeg by default but some may not provide it. Users of such distributions should research their respective distribution for more information.

Reviewer: this isn't very useful, as it translates to "you may have it, or maybe not" -- I suggest that you remove these two sentences, or at least the first one (and merge the second one with the above paragraph)

   
To use FFmpeg to re-encode a video file, open a terminal and paste in the following command, changing the values as needed:

```

> ffmpeg -i input -c:v libx264 -crf 20 -preset veryslow -profile:v high -vf scale=-1:720 -an -sn -map_metadata -1 -map_chapters -1 output.mp4

Reviewer: out of curiosity, does handbrake use ffmpeg under the hood?

Author: Handbrake I think doesn't use FFmpeg under the hood but for H.264 (other formats too but this is H.264-specific), it uses the same encoder (open-source x264 encoder) so any options to configure the underlying encoder will work on both.

Author: Also, following my comment to setting the Encoder Profile to High on Handbrake that I decided should be removed entirely, on FFmpeg, encoder profile is set by `-profile:v high`, so to follow with Handbrake, it can just be removed or replaced with `-profile:v main` to explicitly use the Main profile.

Differences between those profiles are in what compression technique it uses, but from what I've read and test myself, on low resolutions the benefits of using the High profile is minimum at best.

```

> - `-i input`: Your source file. If the file name contains spaces, wrap it around double quotes (`"`).

Reviewer: this reads as "wrap the file name around the quotes", while in reality it's the quotes that wrap the file
```suggestion
- `-i input`: Your source file. If the file name contains spaces, wrap it in double quotes (`"`).
```

## Audio

> **Audio encoded in either MP3 or OGG (Vorbis) formats are supported with `.mp3` and `.ogg` file extensions, respectively.** Other formats such as AAC and OGG (Opus) and any lossless formats, except for uncompressed PCM audio with the `.wav` file extension for hitsounds, are currently not supported by the game client.

Reviewer: 1) audio is singular
2) the second sentence may be significantly reduced for massive comprehension gain
```suggestion
**Audio encoded in either MP3 or OGG (Vorbis) formats is supported with `.mp3` and `.ogg` file extensions, respectively.** Other formats are currently not supported (except for audio with the `.wav` file extension for hitsounds).
```

> Generally, OGG (Vorbis) results in better quality than MP3 for a given bit rate and it's also used for hitsounds.

Reviewer: I think that's irrelevant
```suggestion
Generally, OGG (Vorbis) results in better quality than MP3 for a given bit rate.
```

To begin, download and install [Audacity](https://www.audacityteam.org/) first then follow these steps:

1. Open Audacity, then import the audio file into Audacity.

![Importing audio into Audacity](img/import-audacity.png "Importing audio into Audacity")

2. Export the audio as either MP3 or OGG, respectively.

![Export as MP3](img/exportmenu-audacity.png "Export as MP3")

3. Change the export options to help compress your file depending on which format you choose:
   - For MP3, use `Preset` and select the quality as `Medium, 145-185 kbps`. 
   - For OGG (Vorbis), keep the `Quality` slider at `5` which is the default value.
4. Pick a file location and type a file name to save the file, then click `Save` and a new dialog will appear for you to enter metadata.

![Export settings](img/exportsettings-audacity.png "Export settings")

5. Once done entering metadata, which can be left blank if desired, click `OK` to start re-encoding.

**NOTE:** Clicking `Cancel` on the metadata dialog will result in your audio file not being re-encoded.

### Using FFmpeg

*For instructions on installing FFmpeg, see: [Video/Using FFmpeg](/wiki/Guides/Compressing_files#using-ffmpeg)*

> After installing FFmpeg, open a terminal then use either of the following commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After installing FFmpeg, open a terminal, then use one of the below commands.
```

To encode in the MP3 format, paste the following command into your terminal and change these values as needed:

```
ffmpeg -i input -c:a libmp3lame -q:a 4 -vn -sn -map_metadata -1 -map_chapters -1 output.mp3
```

> - `-i input`: Your source file. If the file name contains spaces, wrap it around double quotes (`"`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `-i input`: Your source file. If the file name contains spaces, wrap it in double quotes (`"`).
```

- `-c:a libmp3lame`: Specify that the audio should be encoded using the LAME MP3 encoder.
- `-q:a 4`: Use the same variable bit rate range as in the Audacity example, **where a lower number means higher bit rate**. If you want constant bit rate, you would instead use for instance `-b:a 128k` for a constant 128kbps bit rate.
- `-vn -sn`: Remove video and subtitles if present.
- `-map_metadata -1 -map_chapters -1`: Remove metadata and chapters if present.

> - `output.mp3`: Your output file. If the file name contains spaces, wrap it around double quotes (`"`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `output.mp3`: Your output file. If the file name contains spaces, wrap it in double quotes (`"`).
```

To encode in the OGG (Vorbis) format, paste the following command into your terminal and change these values as needed:

```
ffmpeg -i input -c:a libvorbis -q:a 5 -vn -sn -map_metadata -1 -map_chapters -1 output.ogg
```

> - `-i input`: Your source file. If the file name contains spaces, wrap it around double quotes (`"`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `-i input`: Your source file. If the file name contains spaces, wrap it in double quotes (`"`).
```

- `-c:a libvorbis`: Specify that the audio should be encoded using the LAME MP3 encoder.
- `-q:a 5`: Use the same variable bit rate range as in the Audacity example, **where a higher number means higher bit rate**. If you want constant bit rate, you would instead use for instance `-b:a 128k` for a constant 128kbps bit rate.
- `-vn -sn`: Remove video and subtitles if present.
- `-map_metadata -1 -map_chapters -1`: Remove metadata and chapters if present.

> - `output.ogg`: Your output file. If the file name contains spaces, wrap it around double quotes (`"`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `output.ogg`: Your output file. If the file name contains spaces, wrap it in double quotes (`"`).
```

## Verification

> It is recommended to check the technical information of re-encoded audio and video files to confirm that they have been processed as expected, and in a way that would meet bit rate and other requirements.
> 
> Software such as [MediaInfo](https://mediaarea.net/en/MediaInfo) can be used to see such information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is recommended to check the technical information of re-encoded audio and video files to confirm that they meet your expectations.
```

Reviewer: this requires adding a link to https://mediaarea.net/en/MediaInfo after the `Using MediaInfo` heading:

```md
[MediaInfo](https://mediaarea.net/en/MediaInfo) is easy to use. <...>.
```

1. Right-click any file and select MediaInfo from the context menu, or use `File` -> `Open` -> `Open file(s)...` in MediaInfo.
2. Change the view from `Basic` to either `Tree`, `Text`, or `HTML`. The default `Basic` view only displays a condensed series of information.

> For video, technical information that are most important will be the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Relevant fields for video files:
```

- `Format` and `Format/Info`, which must be `AVC` and `Advanced Video Codec`, respectively.
- `Width`, which must be at or below `1280 pixels`.
- `Height`, which must be at or below `720 pixels`.
- `Frame rate mode`, which must be `Constant`.

> For audio, technical information that are most important will instead be the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Relevant fields for audio files:
```

> - `Overall bitrate`, which must be between `192kbps` and `128kbps` as specified in the ranking criteria.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Overall bitrate`, which must be between `192kbps` and `128kbps`, as specified in the ranking criteria.
```
